---
layout: post
title: "Docker: Docker-01"
date: 2021-05-09
categories:
  - Docker
tags:
  - docker
  - basic
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
popular: true
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: 목차
article_tag1: docker
article_tag2: basic
article_section: Docker
meta_keywords: Docker, docker, basic
published: true
---

# Whiat is Docker?

Docker is a platform for __consistantly__ building, running, and shipping applications &rightarrow; If it works on my machine, then works on others' too.

## Why might not work on other machine?

- One or more files missing in deployed file
- S/w version mismatch
- Different environment configurations

## Virtual Machine (VM)

An abstraction of a machine (physical h/w)
E.g.) Mac can run Linux and Windows with VM via Hypervisor.
> Hypervisor is a s/w that create and manage VMs (e.g. VirtualBox, VMware, Hyper-v (Windows only))

What are problems w/ VM?

- Each VM needs a full-blown OS (licensed, patched, and monitored)
- Slow to start
- Resource intensive since it accesses specific number of h/w

## Container

An isolated environment for running an application &rightarrow; Allow us run different s/w versions and env on one single machine.

Why better than VM?

- Allow running multiple apps in isolation
- Lightweight
- Use OS (kernel) of the host
- Start quickly
- Need less h/w resources

## Docker architecture

Docker uses client-server(Docker engine) architecture w/ RESTful API.
Container act like process. Every containers share kernel of the host.
> Kernel is a core of the OS: it manages applications and h/w resources such as RAM and CPU.

Every OS has its own kernels.

Linux machine can only run Linux container<br>
Windows machine: Windows / Linux<br>
Mac machine: Linux VM<br>